So are you ready for some Collab?
So, actually, it's a very simple to do
app created with vanilla JavaScript,
and the code works, but
it has several problems.
I mean, it works, that's fine.
But we can see the problems when
we are trying to do some things.
So, for example, what if we want
to save the list todos locally?
Remember, those questions, we will go
back to those questions in a second.
If I wanna add keyboard shortcuts, if I
wanna make it more complex in the future.
And because it's not
using any design pattern,
we will need to decouple most of
the behavior using design patterns, okay?
Or for example to create an undo action,
it's actually pretty cool.
So the lab is available there,
remember feedback,
firtman.github.io/webapp-patterns.
When you get there,
you will see step by step instructions.
We will start, actually,
with chapter 2 now, classic patterns,
checking the project.
And before you need to download or
fork the repo.
So actually, when you go to
the introduction, you have a link for
the repo, so you can download the repo,
fork the repo, whatever you want.
I'm going to open now
that repo in my VS Code,
and this is what you're going to find.
We have three projects,
one of them is TodoMasters and
there are two folders, initial and final.
We're going to start with initial
the final is the final code that we
will be creating.
I will be doing most of the code directly
wide explaining what I'm doing, okay?
But if you wanna follow along, also,
you can go to the companion website and
go chapter by chapter, lesson by lesson.
So when you get there, I'm going to follow
this pattern so we're going to do this
first, upgrading app.js, then we're
going to do this and that, okay?
So you can follow along you don't need to
copy what I'm typing you can get it from
here if you want.
And also you have the final version,
it's gonna be probably 90% the same
as the one that I will get,
because I will be doing live coding,
and based on your questions,
I will probably slightly change the final
code, but it's gonna be pretty similar.
So, that means that you can go and
open directly TodoMasters >
Initial as your current folder project,
and that's gonna be good.
So I can go and
open the folder TodoMaster initial.
So I'm going to be working here.
So you can see I only have three files,
index.html,
that it's actually pretty simple,
it actually fits in one screen,
even with a large font size, okay?
It only includes an app.js file and
a CSS file.
It has a div, a container with a title,
an input type, a button that says Add,
and a todo-list, that's all I have,
okay, pretty simple.
Then CSS, well, we're not going to
cover CSS, but it's also pretty simple,
nothing to worry about.
And app.js, it's also pretty simple.
So I'm DOM content loaded and
actually creating references for the three
elements that I will need later, the
input, the button and the UL and the list.
When you click on the button,
I'm getting the value from the input.
If it's not empty string,
I'm creating a new li, a new item,
setting a class name,
setting its content, with the text and
then a Delete button, and
appending that into the UI.
And then I have another event listener for
delete, so very simple.
That actually I mean, it works, let's see.
So, I should open this, actually,
I can open this directly with
the file protocol because I'm
not using any external reference, but
let's let's run this in local host.
So, I can use any server,
I have here a plugin for VS Code.
You probably know how to run a server,
if not, I'm going to use npx serve.
This is using node.js to download and
execute the serve library that
we just open localhost, 3000.
You can Ctrl-click or
Cmd-click, and this is the app.
So it's a very simple app.
So here we can apply design patterns,
and it's adding this here, okay?
Then we will get some lunch, and then
I can delete that, and it works, okay?